---
layout: post
title: "Books of 2021"
permalink: "books2021"
image: books2021/tree.jpg
tags: [book reviews ,perspective ]
categories: book reviews, perspective
---

## Books of 2021

This year I've been practicing [the rule of 10 pages](https://carverd.com/ten_pages) when picking up a new book. If the book makes the cut, I then determine what reading level I want to engage with the book at. This is something I pulled from [Ness Labs](https://nesslabs.com/how-to-read-a-book) and has been a useful tool for understanding my comment level to a given text. The three categories are **Entertainment**, **Information**, and **Understanding**. These categories basically define the level of synthesis given to a specific text. I generally pull more lessons from books in the Understanding category but every book has something meaning to share.  

## A lesson from each book of 2021.

### Entertainment

> These books are fun and help me keep a consistent reading habit.

  __The Motion of the Body through Space__ by Lionel Shivers

 - Speak your believes even if it's about high Kelvin light bulbs.

  __Blue Ticket__ by Sophie Mackintosh

- Everything you believe can change just by crossing a border.

 __Wild Seed__ by Octavai E. Butler

- Our view of the world is wholly dependent on the amount of time we have spent in it.

 __The Golem and the Jinni__ by Helene Wecker

- Life was so much harder a hundred years ago.

 __The Gunslinger__ by Stephan King

- Not everything you write is amazing.

 __Relic__ by Douglas Preston and Lincon Childs

- Every character needs to have a motive.

 __The Amulet of Samarkand__ by Jonathon Stroud

- Negative emotions lead to trouble.

<br>

### Information

> These are texts that I take seriously but are generally extension from the main ideas that I am interested in.

 __The sibling Society__ by Robert Bly

- If you want to critic something take the time to clearly state your definition so that the reader understand what exact you are talking about.

 __The Education of Little Tree__ by Forrest Carter

- Stories are the best mechanism for discussing the intangible measure of values, morals, and ethics.

 __The Simple Path to Wealth__ by J.L. Collins

- The value of wealth comes from the power to be able to say no because you don't need the money.

 __Start with Why__ by Simon Sinek

- People care about things that they can build their sense of identity or community around.

<br>

### Understanding

> I treat these books as work. I won't pick on up unless I know I can commit some time and attention to it. There is considerable book notes and review that come from these. I only ready one book for understanding at a time

 __Shop Class for Soulcraft__ by Matthew B. Crawford

- Seek experience in which the outcomes can be objective evaluated by some universal measure of quality as these allow you to understand own competence.

 __Homo Deus__ by Yuval Noah Harari

- Studying history allows one to see how the cultural of today came to be and understand just how easily thing could have been very different.

 __The Stoic Challenge__ by William B. Irvine

- It is up to the individual to determine how much anguish an event outside of their control can cause them.

 __The Coddling of the American Mind__ by Jonathan Haidt and Greg Lukianoff

- Cognitive behavior therapy defines underlying mental distortions that lead to negative outlooks and eventually negative outcomes.  

 __The Paradox of Choice__ by Barry Schwartz

- In a world where censorship comes from the flood rather then the absence of information choosing when and how we make choices is essential to our well being.
