---
layout: post
title: "Books of 2023"
image: books/flowerRock.jpg
tags: [perspective]
categories: perspective 
---


The **best book of the year** was the *Scout Mindset* by Julia Galef

It made for a bit of a unique reading experience as I listened to three different podcasts with the author discussing the book before I read it. The well-organized text provides numerous ideas about how to better improve your decision making. I found it inspired a lot of discussions and writing. It’s a book I hope to check back in with in the future. 


<br>
<br>

## Understanding

> I treat these as an essential part of my education. I read them, take notes, do full reviews, and they often make the base of the content for my writing.

**Atomic Habits** by James Clear

Directed growth is a produce of constantly accumulating small steps 

**The Scout Mindset** by Julia Galef

Clear and effective decision making is vital and difficult to do.

**What we own the future** by William MacAskill

The people alive today represent 17% of all the people who have ever lived. 


<br>
<br>

## Information

> Theses are books that I read with consideration but take very limited notes

**Why Buddhism is True** by Robert Wright

Evolutionary psychology’s understand on the human mind aligns well with a Buddhist interpretation of meditation and mindfulness.

**You Money or Your Life** by Joseph Dominguex and Vicki Robin

Your attitude toward money is a very connected part of your identity and, therefore, can be difficult to change.

**I will teach you to be rich** by Ramit Sethi

We stress about acquiring money and spending it.

<br>
<br>

## Entertainment

> These books are fun to read and help me keep a consistent reading habit

**American Gods** by Neil Gaiman

 Strikingly odd things can be attractive.

**The Genius Plague** by David Walton

There is a real, although imagined fragility to the world.

**Three Laws Lethal** by David Walton

Even machine learning and make an engaging story
