---
layout: post
title: "Books of 2022"
permalink: "books2022"
image: books2022/flower.jpg
tags: [book reviews ,perspective ]
categories: reviews perspective
---

## Books of 2022

I read much less this year then in years past. There are a few reasons for this that all center around my prioritization of reading and writing.

The best book of the year was The Moral Animal by Robert Wright. A introduction to modern Darwinism, this was almost painfully enlightening. Much like the games changes of the past (Jared Diamond/ Yuval Noah Harari) Wright give so much context on what is means to be a human.


## A lesson from each book of 2021.

### Entertainment

> These books are fun and help me keep a consistent reading habit.

  __The Golem's Eye__ by Jonathan Stroud

 - The is a real cost to climbing the ladder.

 __It Was On Fire When I Lay Down On It__ by Robert Fulghum

- Trust in the value of your own stories.

<br>

### Information

> These are texts that I read with consideration and take limited written notes.

 __If Aristotle's Kid Had an IPod__ by Conor Gallagher

- If you can be virtuous, do what should be done without thinking about it, things will come together.

 __The Moral Animal__ by Robert Wright

- Knowing the cards your dealt is the best tool for being able to act outside their influence.

 __The Alcohol Experiment__ by Annie Grace

- Committing to a action everyday does wonders to allowing something to happen over the long run.

 __The Shelter of Each Other__ by Mary Pipher

- Let your life start at your family.

<br>

### Understanding

> I treat these books as work. I won't pick on up unless I know I can commit some time and attention to it.

 __Base Strength__ by Alex Bromley

- Thoughtful strength training can tell you so much about how to grow in other aspects of life.

 __The Madness of Crowds__ by Douglas Murray

- Practice giving others a generous evaluation of their actions.

 __The World Beyond Your Head__ by Matthew Crawford

- Our attention is a product of our personal values, but it's unclear from where we are obtaining those personal values.
