# daily page
### what are you most curious about recently

This is something I could really ramble about. I'm a curious person at the end of the day and I have always been on. The willingness to learn that come from curiousity is one of the driving focus of my personalalities. Maybe the best way to phase this is Im curious as to how to direct my curiousiness to something that will help me personally and professionaly in the long term. Those can really be split into the relams of making it as a professional scientist and grewing as a person. THe scientist thing is really just for work, so it's important but nto really the biggest driving foce for me. THere are some technical components to this, getting better at reading and writing.being a more efficent and competent programmer. THese are pretty easy things to achive with time and effort THe real growth factor that I am working with is networking and trying to maintain professional relationships. Right now this just consistent of trying to talk aboiut my work and activelly reaching out to people about it.
Personally growth is far more interesting. It coming down to a framing issuing. Lots of this perspective is coming from the material that kailee is learning from. Tony Roberts??? IT's a little hard for me to buy in because it feel super culty but most of it makes sense. MAybe the way to sum it up is Im trying to be a better personal by maintaining my health and praticing devotion and commentment in my everyday life. Theres no sure fired way to make sure that happends some I'm very curious about how to make it all work. 
